Feature: Add FS 5.0.0 release notes (#213)
FirelyTeam/firely-docs-firely-server: releasenotes/releasenotes_v5.rst

.. _vonk_releasenotes_history_v5:

Current Firely Server release notes (v5.x)
==========================================

.. _vonk_releasenotes_5_0_0:

Release 5.0.0-beta1, TBD, 2023
------------------------------
.. attention::
    This is a beta release of Firely Server 5.0.0. Although the core functionality remains fully intact, parts of the public API have been removed or heavily modified. Please consult the list under section 'Plugin and Facade' and check whether your implementation is affected by these changes.

Feature
^^^^^^^

> #. The default information model for Firely Server is now R4.

Reviewer: We should also mention the release of Firely Auth as a tool

Author: Done!

#. Firely Server is now certified according to the `ONC Certification (g)(10) Standardized API <https://inferno.healthit.gov/suites/test_sessions/10cad0a0-1d6e-4648-b2c8-70cefbf260c5>`_.
#. Bulk Data Export now supports SMART on FHIR v2.
#. Contents of AuditEvents can now be modified via a plugin. See :ref:`AuditEvent customization <audit_event_customization>` for further info.

Fix
^^^

#. Bulk Data Export now returns a succesful status code (``202``) instead of an erroneous status code if no resources were matched for an export. The resulting export will include an empty array as described in the `specification <https://hl7.org/fhir/uv/bulkdata/export/index.html#response---complete-status>`_.
#. Empty search parameters are now ignored by the server instead of resulting in an error response.

> #. Firely Server now creates valid R5 AuditEvents.

Reviewer: FHIR R5

Author: Done

#. Firely Server now supports searching on version-specific references. Consult the `FHIR specification <https://www.hl7.org/fhir/search.html#versions>`_ for more information.

> #. Searching for a resource with multiple sort fields does not throw an exception anymore.

Reviewer: Just on SQL server

Author: Done

> #. Fields that are included in the audit event log and AuditEvent resources now contain the same content.

Reviewer: I would move this to features: "Firely Server now generated FHIR AuditEvent resources conforming to IHE Basic Audit Log Patterns. See https://profiles.ihe.net/ITI/BALP/index.html". Fields that are included in the audit event log and AuditEvent resources now contain the same content.

Author: Done

#. When updating a deleted resource conditionally, Firely Server does not throw an exception anymore.
#. Firely Server now returns the correct issue code when performing a conditional update using ``_id`` as a parameter. Additionally, the error message has been improved when a resource in a different information model is matched via the ``id`` field.
#. When executing a ``POST``-based search, Firely Server will now return the correct self-link as seen in ``GET``-based searches.
#. Upon commencing a Bulk Data Export, Firely Server now correctly handles ``Prefer`` headers as outlined `in the specification <https://hl7.org/fhir/uv/bulkdata/export/index.html#headers>`_.
#. ``Device`` can now be added as an additional resource in a Bulk Data export.
#. The client id of the default SMART authorization options have been changed from ``vonk`` to ``firelyserver``.
#. Firely Server now returns improved error messages if the client is not allowed to perform searches.

> #. Support for Firely Server using a SQLite database on M1 Macs was improved. 

Reviewer: arm64-based Macs

Author: Done

#. Firely Server now returns the correct CodeSystem ``http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/restful-security-service`` within the security section of its ``CapabilityStatement``. Before this change, the old R3 CodeSystem ``http://hl7.org/fhir/restful-security-service`` was falsely returned.
#. When performing a Bulk Data Export request with a Firely Server instance running on a SQL database, it will return the Group resource even if it has no members. 
#. Firely Server will now handle duplicate DLLs and assemblies more gracefully in case they were accidently added to its plugin directory.

Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#. The configuration section for additional endpoints in the discovery document and additional issuers in tokens has been reworked. Consult the :ref:`SMART Configuration section<feature_accesscontrol_config>` for more details.

Plugin and Facade
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. Firely Server now uses the `Firely .NET SDK 4.3.0 <https://github.com/FirelyTeam/firely-net-sdk/releases/tag/v4.3.0-stu3>`_. Follow the link for an overview of all changes.
#. Please note that the ``Vonk.Smart`` package will not be published on NuGet anymore.

> The following modules of the public API have either been deprecated, are no longer part of the public API or have been altered in some other way: 

Reviewer: We should indicate which ones have been removed and which are still available.

Author: I improved the wording, as it does not make a difference for developers whether these have been removed or marked as internal. In either way, they are not accessible anymore. What do you think about the changes?

Reviewer: Oh sorry. I somehow thought that we moved some namespaces ourselves that would affect the public API. However that's of course not the case. All good.

.. _vonk_releasenotes_history_v5:

Current Firely Server release notes (v5.x)
==========================================

.. _vonk_releasenotes_5_0_0:

Release 5.0.0-beta1, TBD, 2023
------------------------------
.. attention::
    This is a beta release of Firely Server 5.0.0. Although the core functionality remains fully intact, parts of the public API have been removed or heavily modified. Please consult the list under section 'Plugin and Facade' and check whether your implementation is affected by these changes.

Feature
^^^^^^^

> 

Reviewer: https://firely.atlassian.net/browse/VONK-3923 seems to be missing

Reviewer: I cannot find a mention of https://firely.atlassian.net/browse/VONK-3924

Author: Added both!

#. The initial public version of Firely Auth has been released. Firely Auth is an optimized OAuth2 provider that understands SMART on FHIR scopes and the FHIR resource types they apply to out of the box. See :ref:`firely_auth_index` for more information.
#. The default information model for Firely Server is now R4.

> #. Firely Server is now certified according to the `ONC Certification (g)(10) Standardized API <https://inferno.healthit.gov/suites/test_sessions/10cad0a0-1d6e-4648-b2c8-70cefbf260c5>`_.

Reviewer 2: @alexzautke : Will this indeed be ready for the beta release?

Author: Removed!

> #. Bulk Data Export now supports SMART on FHIR v2.

Reviewer: We can mention here that we now also published our SoF v2 docs as part of https://firely.atlassian.net/browse/VONK-3858

Author: Done!

#. Contents of AuditEvents can now be modified via a plugin. See :ref:`AuditEvent customization <audit_event_customization>` for further info.

Fix
^^^

#. Bulk Data Export now returns a succesful status code (``202``) instead of an erroneous status code if no resources were matched for an export. The resulting export will include an empty array as described in the `specification <https://hl7.org/fhir/uv/bulkdata/export/index.html#response---complete-status>`_.

> #. Empty search parameters are now ignored by the server instead of resulting in an error response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Search parameters without a value are now ignored by the server instead of resulting in an error response.
```

#. Firely Server now creates valid FHIR R5 AuditEvents.

> #. Firely Server now supports searching on version-specific references. Consult the `FHIR specification <https://www.hl7.org/fhir/search.html#versions>`_ for more information.

Reviewer 2: This qualifies as a feature as well I think.

Author: Agreed 👍

#. Searching for a resource with multiple sort fields does not throw an exception anymore when Firely Server runs on a SQL database.

> #. Firely Server now generates FHIR AuditEvent resources conforming to `IHE Basic Audit Log Patterns <https://profiles.ihe.net/ITI/BALP/index.html>`_. Fields that are included in the audit event log and AuditEvent resources now contain the same content.

Reviewer: Can you move this to the feature section?

Reviewer 2: It is also not mentioned on the page auditing.rst. It should be.

Author: Moved it to features and created an issue for including it in `auditing.rst` here: https://firely.atlassian.net/browse/VONK-4193

#. When using the ``If-Modified-Since`` header, only resources that were modified after the specified timestamp are returned. Because of a precision mismatch (seconds vs. milliseconds), wrong resources were sometimes returned before this fix.
#. When updating a deleted resource conditionally, Firely Server does not throw an exception anymore.

> #. Firely Server now returns the correct issue code when performing a conditional update using ``_id`` as a parameter. Additionally, the error message has been improved when a resource in a different information model is matched via the ``id`` field.

Reviewer 2: I would mention the old & new issue code so users can for example search for them in their code or even postman collections.

Author: Done!

#. When executing a ``POST``-based search, Firely Server will now return the correct self-link as seen in ``GET``-based searches.
#. Upon commencing a Bulk Data Export, Firely Server now correctly handles ``Prefer`` headers as outlined `in the specification <https://hl7.org/fhir/uv/bulkdata/export/index.html#headers>`_.
#. ``Device`` can now be added as an additional resource in a Bulk Data export.
#. The client id of the default SMART authorization options have been changed from ``vonk`` to ``firelyserver``.
#. Firely Server now returns improved error messages if the client is not allowed to perform searches.
#. Support for Firely Server using a SQLite database on arm64-based Macs was improved. 
#. During SMART on FHIR v2 discovery, Firely Server now returns the ``grant_types_supported`` field.
#. Firely Server now returns the correct CodeSystem ``http://terminology.hl7.org/CodeSystem/restful-security-service`` within the security section of its ``CapabilityStatement``. Before this change, the old R3 CodeSystem ``http://hl7.org/fhir/restful-security-service`` was falsely returned.

> #. When performing a Bulk Data Export request with a Firely Server instance running on a SQL database, it will return the Group resource even if it has no members. 

Reviewer 2: I would cluster the 3 fixes on BDE for better readability

Author: Now it's five, so even better!

#. Firely Server will now handle duplicate DLLs and assemblies more gracefully in case they were accidently added to its plugin directory.

Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> #. The configuration section for additional endpoints in the discovery document and additional issuers in tokens has been reworked. Consult the :ref:`SMART Configuration section<feature_accesscontrol_config>` for more details.

Reviewer: We should add a warning here that the old config will stop working, maybe even outline what has been changed.

Author: Added a warning but I want to avoid duplicating information here. Otherwise we'll have to remember to change both places. Keeping a reference is better 👍

> #. The configuration section for additional endpoints in the discovery document and additional issuers in tokens has been reworked. Consult the :ref:`SMART Configuration section<feature_accesscontrol_config>` for more details.

Reviewer: We should highlight that in case you have a custom pipeline in your appsettings you need to adjust it to account for our namespace changes, e.g. Vonk.Core.Operations.

Author: Done! But are there any other changes?

Reviewer: Not that I know of

Plugin and Facade
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> #. Firely Server now uses the `Firely .NET SDK 4.3.0 <https://github.com/FirelyTeam/firely-net-sdk/releases/tag/v4.3.0-stu3>`_. Follow the link for an overview of all changes.

Reviewer: Add a warning that due to namespace changes in the SDK, all plugins need to be re-compiled against this release.

Author: Done!
